Various host function fixes/improvements (#533)
gavofyork/graypaper: text/pvm_invocations.tex

      \multicolumn{2}{l}{\where \tup{u, \mathbf{r}, \none} = \Psi_M(\wpX_\wp¬authcode, 0, \Cpackageauthgas, \encode[2]{c}, F, \none)}\\
    \end{cases}\\
  } \\
  \label{eq:isauthorizedmutator}F \in \contextmutator{\set{\none}} &\colon
    \tup{n, \gascounter, \registers, \memory, \none} \mapsto \begin{cases}
      \Omega_G(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \none) &\when n = \mathtt{gas} \\
      \Omega_\Gemini(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \none, \wpX_\wp¬authcode) &\when n = \mathtt{grow\_heap} \\

>       \Omega_Y(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \none, \wpX, \none, \none, \none, \none, \none, \none, \none) &\when n = \mathtt{fetch} \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      \Omega_Y(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \none, \wpX, \none, \none, \none, \none, \none, \none) &\when n = \mathtt{fetch} \\
```

$\Omega_Y$ takes 11 args

Author: Agree, thanks.

      \Omega_Y(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}, p, \zerohash, \mathbf{r}, i, \overline{\mathbf{i}}, \overline{\mathbf{x}}, \none) &\when n = \mathtt{fetch}\\
      \Omega_H(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}, w_\wi¬serviceindex, \accounts, (p_\wp¬context)_\wc¬lookupanchortime) &\when n = \mathtt{historical\_lookup}\\
      \Omega_E(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}, \segoff) &\when n = \mathtt{export}\\
      \Omega_M(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}) &\when n = \mathtt{machine}\\
      \Omega_P(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}) &\when n = \mathtt{peek}\\
      \Omega_O(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}) &\when n = \mathtt{poke}\\
      \Omega_Z(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}) &\when n = \mathtt{pages}\\
      \Omega_K(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}) &\when n = \mathtt{invoke}\\
      \Omega_X(\gascounter, \registers, \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}) &\when n = \mathtt{expunge}\\

>       \tup{\oog, 0, \registers', \memory, \tup{\mathbf{m}, \mathbf{e}}} &\otherwhen \gascounter' < 0\\

Reviewer: This PR remove signed gas, the unknown host-call fallack is one place left with signed intermediate (γ' =  - M_∅) and then tests (γ'<0). Perhaps we can just guard the input (γ < M_∅) matching the general "γ < g" check, and subtract only in the continue branch. 

Applies to the other dispatchers as well (is-auth, accum)

Author: Sure, done.

\subsection{Host Functions}

We come now to defining the host functions which are utilized by the \textsc{pvm} invocations. These map some \textsc{pvm} state, including invocation context $\context$, possibly together with some additional parameters, to a new \textsc{pvm} state.

> All host functions are of the form $\tup{\execst^* \in \set{\continue, \panic, \oog}, \gascounter^* \in \gas, \registers^* \in \regs, \memory^* \in \ram, \context^*} = \Omega_\square(\gascounter \in \gas, \registers \in \regs, \memory \in \ram, \context, \dots)$. The gas cost of a host-call is given by $g$, defined in the tables below; $\execst^* = \oog$ is returned and \textsc{pvm} state is unchanged if there is insufficient gas to cover this cost. Formally:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All host functions are of the form $\tup{\execst^* \in \set{\continue, \panic, \oog}, \gascounter^* \in \gas, \registers^* \in \regs, \memory^* \in \ram, \context^*} = \Omega_\square(\gascounter \in \gas, \registers \in \regs, \memory \in \ram, \context, \dots)$. The gas cost of a host-call is given by $g$, defined in the tables below; should there be insufficient gas to cover this cost, $\execst^* = \oog$ is returned, all remaining gas is consumed, and registers, memory and context are left unchanged. Formally:
```

Nit. The pvm gas is technically part of pvm state?

Author: Yeah ok. Applied.

\begin{align}
  \gascounter^* &\equiv \max(\gascounter - g, 0)\quad\text{unless $\gascounter^*$ is explicitly defined below} \\
  \tup{\execst^*, \registers^*, \memory^*, \context^*} &\equiv \begin{cases}
    \tup{\oog, \registers, \memory, \context} &\when \gascounter < g \\
    \tup{\execst, \registers', \memory', \context'} &\otherwise
  \end{cases}
\end{align}

Memory-sized gas for host-calls is given by a rate $L$ (gas per 1024 octets) and size $\ell$ (octets). The following defines the gas cost for such a size:
\begin{equation}\label{eq:fnmemgas}
  \fnmemgas(L, \ell) \equiv \ceil{\frac{L \cdot \ell}{1024}}
\end{equation}

> With base cost $c$, total gas is $c + \fnmemgas(L, \ell)$. The host-call tables below uses this formula for all memory-sized terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With base cost $c$, total gas is $c + \fnmemgas(L, \ell)$. The host-call tables below use this formula for all memory-sized terms.
```

Author: Ta

    \using \sq{o, f_0, z} &= \registers\subrange{7}{3} \\
    \using f &= \min(f_0, \len{\mathbf{v}}) \\
    \using l &= \min(z, \len{\mathbf{v}} - f) \\

>     \tup{\execst, \registers'_7, \memory'\subrange{o}{l}} &\equiv \begin{cases}

Reviewer 2: Seems odd - point taken but the prime is more about denoting of posteriority. Not sure how this reads now...

Author: I found it confusing to have `\execst'` with no `\execst` but happy to revert this anyway.

Author: Reverted.
